This lesson we're going to be looking at recursion with functions and essentially what that means is
that every time a function it's called and recall recursively is basically a duplicated itself in the
memory and it's waiting for that function.
It just calls and the results.
It waits till that results finish.
So basically this is a call of a function within that own function so call the function within itself.
And that creates this recursion.
So let's create something with him the within our output here and I'm going to give it an ID.
So this is just going to be our test space.
So I you create a bunch of divs and I had to go down and I'm going to loop through all the different
children that are available within that parent div.
So then I put some values in there and we're going to loop out all of the values here and we're going
to do this using recursive method using functions.
So I can actually do a loop.
We're going to just use the function and we're going to loop loop through all of these until we finally
hit the end of them.
And basically that's what it does is it allows you to have a continuous loop until you complete looping
through all of
the available content.
And then once that function has nothing left to loop then the loop will actually stop.
So I saw this earlier as well.
So let's try this out now and let's create our function.
So this function is going to loop through and it's going to get all of the children it's going to output
those children within our console.
So first we need to do is set up a variable.
So we just call it test and let's grab that documents a document get element by I.D. and test.
So we're going to pick up that object test.
And what I want to do is I want to loop through all of the children there all of the available children
that are available within this and for this.
So I don't want to loop within the function itself.
I want to call to another function that's actually going to list all of those descendants.
So let's
child al.
So that's going to be the function that we're going to call.
And then this function is going to be the recursive one that's actually going to loop through itself.
So let's call it C L instead.
So that's for child elements that are available within that parent so let's also pass through the variable
test there and we'll pick that up as data.
So we know that this is our node that we're looking at that's a parent node that we're looking at and
that we need to do is we need to.
So let's say let's console log this so it can take a closer look and we can see what we're actually
getting.
And I want to actually focus on the children.
So going back into what we learned within the dorm we know that every element if they have children
then we can list them out and we can see them within every format.
And also I just want to run this one just as a default.
So let's try and let's load the page.
So we see that but this one initially has three children.
So it's got this div that div..
And then this Stiv actually has its own set of children.
So this is where the recursive function is going to come into play because we're going to loop through
this this particular element and we're going to see if there are some children and we're going to simply
continue to loop through and we're going to get the values of all of the children.
So let's go out and do that.
And for this we need to set up a loop.
So this is something that we've done many times before.
Set up a variable and give it a starting point and loop through.
While it's less than the length of state children so don't forget that children part and that is where
we've got our array.
And then let's increment X by 1.
So this is our loop.
And as we're looping through we can pick up.
So let's set up a brain new variable and this is going to get that data.
Children and the value that's contained within x.
So basically we're going to output them here and I'm going to get rid of that and we can also for now
we can console log this out.
So it's actually not going to be anything different it's up to us.
It's going to sit on different lines.
So there's all three of the children in a different type of format.
So what happens if we actually loop through it again.
So if we take the value of c and we call the function on itself.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
And this is where the recursion happens because it's basically going to continue to loop through and
get all of the children of the children and so on.
So let's try this out.
So this way In fact we get the two children and then we get this parent and we get this one and this
one has a child of its own as well.
So we're actually getting all five of the elements so even though these two are children of the children
and we can even go deeper if we have even more elements.
So this is actually a great way to loop through some of that Dom in order to pull back some information
about it.
So let's actually add in one more function and do some updates so that we can actually see the content.
And also I want to add in a class so let's create a box and I'm going to give this one a width so that
we can actually see what these does look like because right now we can't really see them very well.
So let's put them into a box and then I show you also how to color those boxes randomly.
So that's also coming up in this lesson.
So what I want you to do now is create another function that's actually you can apply that class to
the child.
So each one of these children are going out of their own class applied to them.
So go ahead and do that.
Pause the video and I'll show the solution coming up.
So the solution is to pass that value and create a brain you.
So basically to style that.
So it could do s l or we can do s node.
So this is going to style the node and maybe this one makes more sense to if we update it to node and
this needs to get updated to node and this needs to get updated node so we are.
So that should work.
And let's do some changes here so I just want to make sure that I am working properly and we know that
we don't have that function yet.
So this is the exercise for this lesson is to actually create this function and this function is going
to take some data.
So we just call it data as well.
And then we're going to make use of that content.
So we want to apply some styling to it.
And that was the challenge and we know that we can pick up the element information by passing it within
the function.
So we've already got the element there we've already grabbed it.
So the next thing that we need to do is simply apply a class list to it and we can add to that class
list.
And within here we just need to specify the class name that we want it to add in.
So let's try that.
And refresh.
And so there we go so we get those boxes added and I'm going to add in a border so that we can actually
see it.
So let's refresh that again.
So there we go.
So now we can see all of our elements.
They've all got some styling being applied to it.
So let's do even more.
And this one is how we can create a random color.
So this one is a little bit of a challenge.
We're going to be using math random again and this time we need to create a random color string and
we know with colors we have a number of choice.
So I had to create a variable for background color.
And I'm going to just simply equal that.
And we know with colors we can add in the hexadecimal format.
So that's basically value of characters from 1 to 255.
So that's R.G. B.
And we can also do characters hexadecimal characters.
So let's try that out.
And this math random and we're going to convert it to a string of 16
and then we're going to sub string that and subtract 2 6 out of there and let's let's console log this
value out here that we've just created and there's a number of ways to generate random colors.
So if you search on the internet you'll find that there's a number of different ways.
And usually I prefer this type of format.
So basically what it's doing is it's doing the math random converting and untax a decimal and then substring.
So it's pulling back just those first six characters of that string.
So similar to what we did before but this time this is a different way to use math random.
So there we go.
So we've got our random colors.
So the next step is to apply background colors to our elements.
So go ahead and pause the video and add a background color using this random color generator that we've
just created.
To each one of those child elements.
So if you have the opportunity to try that out.
And in this lesson now I'll show you the solution to that.
So style and we use the style background property and this is the one that is going to give us the color
so background color and then all we have to do is equal it to our randomly generated color and that's
it.
So let's refresh it.
And every time we refresh it we get some nice colors to our elements and the nice thing about using
this type of functionality is if all of a sudden your code changes and we've got five.
And I'm just going to do a bunch of fives here.
So if you've got a bunch of children in there you can see that they all get those values generated.
I'm also going to display.
Inline block.
And let's refresh that so we get them all in line blocked so we can basically see that this is the parent.
This is the second element.
And then this is the third element.
So it starts at 3.
Then it has some children in there so it's got four.
And then it's got a bunch of children in there just under that.
So there we go.
And every time we refresh we get a nice fresh set of colors.
So if you didn't get a chance to go ahead and try this out and see what you can do with recursion within
your functions.